so you have learned the basics of recursion.
Now we would be looking at some quick thinking problems and would will see how you can create recurrences
for some of these problems.
So the idea is how do you break down a problem and you find out the recurrence?
Okay, let's go through this question.
Given a 4 X n board, we are given a 4 X n board and there are tiles of size four,
cross one.
We need to find the number of ways to fill the given board using four cross one tiles.
Okay.
So basically there is a tile of four cross one.
Or it could be like this also one cross four.
Or tile can be placed horizontally as one cross four or it can be placed vertically as four cross one
tile as well.
So let's see.
Let's see how we can solve this problem.
So we are given.
Board like this.
So it is four units long and N units wide.
What you can do, you can put a tile inside this boat either vertically like this, or you can place
tiles horizontally like this.
So to fill up this vertical space, you would need four tiles in this case.
Or maybe again, you can put vertically, vertically, vertically or horizontally.
We need to find out in how many ways.
How many ways are there to fill this board?
Okay.
So what we have learnt in recursion is, we will try to break down this problem into smaller sub problems.
So what I can say.
Okay, let's say we have a board.
Okay.
And what can we possibilities of filling this board.
Let's say this is the board of size N, and let's suppose we put the first tile in the vertical orientation.
Okay, we fixed this tile.
So what we are left with, we are left with a sub problem.
So what is a sub problem?
This is the sub problem of size.
What?
What would be the number of ways to fill the remaining board?
Okay.
So this sub problem is of size N minus one because we have already put one tile in this orientation.
So.
Or what could be another option?
Another option could be we first put the tile in the.
Horizontal layout.
So if you put a tile like this, then you cannot place tiles vertically on the top of it.
You have only one options to place tiles on the top of it, and that is you have to place all these
four tiles horizontally.
So we have placed four tiles.
T1 T2 T3 T4
But this is only one combination.
Okay?
This is one combination.
And we also need to find out in how many ways we can filled out the remaining board.
Now we know this tile and this four units.
This is also four units and this is what this is N minus four units.
can I say if F(n) is the number of ways to fill this entire board then.
f(n) would be equal to some of these two options.
There are only two options to start with.
Either you place the tile vertically or you placed it horizontally.
So the number of ways to fill this board would be F of N minus one.
And the number of ways to fill this board would be a f of N minus four.
so can I say F(n) is nothing but sum of these two options that is equal to F of n minus one plus
f of n minus four.
That makes sense.
Okay.
That is a recurrence that you can easily code up.
to find out in how many ways board can be filled.
Now you got the recurrence.
You need to think of the base case.
So can you say if N is zero.
If N is zero.
There would be only one way.
Okay.
Or if N is one, then also there would be only one way.
What about N equal to two?
for N Equal to 2, is also one way.
Because if you have a board of size two, you can only place two tiles.
If you have N equal to three, then also you have only one way.
If you have N equal to four.
Okay.
So N equal to three is also one way.
But if you have N equal to four, then you have 2 ways either place, all of them as vertically or
you place them as horizontally, like on top of each other.
It would be a 4 X 4 grid, but in this case I can say that for, N that is less than equal to
three the answer is one.
so base case would be if.
N is less than equal to three.
I will return one.
Okay.
Otherwise I will return answer as F of an minus one plus F of n minus four.
This is your base case.
And this is your recursive case.
So you can also verify from the recursive case that if board length is four then your answer is f(n-1)
that is F of three, that is one plus f(n-4).
That is zero.
That is also one.
That means for N equal to four, using this recurrence, you get the answer as two.
Which is also true because we have seen these diagrams.
I hope you've understood this problem and you can easily solve it using recursion.
And later on, once you learn dynamic programming, you will find that this problem also has overlapping
sub problems.
Right.
So let me tell you what happens if you compute for N equal to lets say 6.
So you make a call on N minus one and N minus four.
You're making two calls.
You make a call on five.
And you're making a call.
on two from five.
You're making a call on four.
And you're making a call on one from two you're making a call on one.
And 2 is actually a base case.
Okay, so it is less than three.
You're not making a call from four.
You would be making a call to three.
And from four you're also going to make a call to zero.
Let's take a bigger example.
lets say N is seven.
So seven minus one, six and seven minus four.
That is three.
So what you can observe is there would be some states which you are computing again and again.
That is a concept of overlapping sub problems that we would do in dynamic programming and.
And in that case you can add some optimization to just make it work in linear time, that we're not concerned
right now.
The only thing was you should know how to derive the recurrence and how to solve this problem.
I hope that is cleared.